As we've
very clear here, is
sure to be a topic tonight
in the debate is Israel
how much support
the United States is willing
to give Israel specifically
and how conditional is that support?
So much of that war tonight
still being waged below ground.
And now
and it is important
right ahead of this debate,
CNN has gotten incredible access
for the first time
going deep inside captured Hamas tunnels.
In fact, the first Western television
crew allowed to go inside.
Khan Younis was our Nic Robertson,
and he got a rare
look at where
hostages were held underground.
And as part of this access,
which did come from the IDF,
it is important that, you know,
that CNN did agree to report
from Gaza under IDF escort at all times
as a condition for journalists
to join the embed with the IDF.
Media outlets
must submit footage
filmed in Gaza to the IDF
for Security Review.
Now, CNN did not submit its final report
to the IDF
and retained editorial control,
but we want to be very transparent
with you.
Nic Robertson is OUTFRONT
with this incredible report
that you will see. First, OUTFRONT,
Hanh Yunis, a gunner's view,
driving in,
scouring the landscape
for threats,
problem for these IDF troops.
Enemy is mostly hiding in tunnels.
They say
the biggest issue
is the fact
that we are actually maneuvering
above ground underground.
Golfers who commands Israel's biggest
military division ever is adapting.
So you use all your senses that you have.
You use your vision sensor,
you use your field sensor,
the smell sensor.
You know, he's invited
CNN to go deep into the tunnels.
We are told
this is the heart of Khan Younis,
and the hostages
are likely underground nearby
and that some were held here.
This tunnel we're going in here is one
where some of the hostages were held,
that first round of hostage releases.
Some of them came out from down here.
So how deep does this tunnel go?
Our first time to get up close to what?
Shaping this war.
We are moving underground.
We maneuver underground.
We get a reach
every each
and every militant
or each and every terrorist underground.
No modern army
has had to fight aboveground
an underground like this before.
How how is that to do it?
It's difficult
and it's just going to be a very, very
hard, long fight to see just how hard.
He takes us deeper.
So we came down a metal ladder.
We've come down one flight of stairs.
We're going down
a second flight of stairs here.
It's a double flight, it looks like.
And down here,
command and control
was running all the way down.
It's a deep, deep system.
How deep are we underground,
do you think, right now?
At the moment, we are more or less
between 10 to 15 meters underground.
10 to 15 meters.
And now we're going down another level,
down more steps
about to go down again.
Another level.
So my head keeps
banging off the roof.
What are we looking at here?
This is a small room, okay?
With some kind of air ventilation system
and ventilation system.
This goes up and boom,
metal frame around the door.
These metal frames,
this can be
as much as this is a small room.
This is how the different
cages that they put the kidnaped.
So they were held in cages.
In cages you
hidden and utterly cut off
and found here.
You really can't hear anything.
What's going on in the outside world
now?
We must be 20 or 30 meters down.
We're almost 20.
Almost 20.
So they have tunnels three times
as deep as this time.
What's clear here?
The money,
planning and preparation invested
for a long siege
with 20 meters
underground here, 20 meters.
And there's a fully flush toilet.
And it's even painted a nice place
for a light bulb.
And light switches the tiles.
The labyrinth keeps going.
Okay, now it's so low,
we're getting down on our knees
to get through.
All right. Yeah.
Gold for us.
Pauses,
lays out his path to victory underground.
It's Hamas,
and we have to reach
this Hamas core
to finish them off.
But those Palestinian people
aboveground are also dying.
So I understand that.
I understand.
That's why
we're trying to do it as fast as we can.
Yesterday,
there were mortars
and rockets fired from north of Gaza
to the southern state of Israel
into the civilian part of Israel.
So as long as those rockets
are coming out of northern Gaza,
the people of the south
who have moved to the south
can't go back to the north
as long as we haven't
carried out our mission
all the way,
as long as we haven't finished this
this mission,
I don't think we will leave here.
We had back half an hour underground.
We've seen only a fraction of this war
changing labyrinth gold versus challenge.
Find all the others.
All right,
Nic, 65 feet underground where you are,
it just even comprehend that your head
hitting the ceiling.
I mean, it's amazing
you were even able to withstand that,
to experience that yourself.
But when you're down there,
how is it that the IDF says or knows
that they're so close
to Hamas hostages in those tunnels
or in tunnels next to them
and yet isn't able to get them out?
And that's the
that's the difficult thing.
How do you fight the battle
when you're fighting
in several dimensions?
You know,
I said to him, normally in a battle
you would outflank your enemy.
You get around the side of them.
But down there,
he said, you know,
we don't even know
we can be standing on top of them.
They can be underneath us.
So we've got to try to fight
in all these different dimensions.
But they do have good intelligence
that's part of the picture.
And in that tunnel, at least,
they were able to extract DNA evidence,
blood
hair of the previous of the hostages
that actually been held down there.
So there's a lot of technical
equipment use as well.